## Resources Used:
- https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/tutorials/azure-get-started/install-cli
- https://developer.hashicorp.com/vault/tutorials/getting-started/getting-started-install

## Environments Used:
- Ubuntu VM in VirtualBox

Terraform is an infrastructure as code tool that lets you build, change, and version infrastructure. Terraform enables users to manage infrastructure resources such as virtual machines, storage, networking, and more across various cloud providers and on-premises environments. It automates the process of setting up and managing infrastructure, making it easier to maintain and scale complex systems.

Terraform Vault is a tool that integrates HashiCorp's Terraform infrastructure as code tool with HashiCorp's Vault secrets management tool. This integration allows users to securely manage and access sensitive information, such as passwords, API keys, and certificates, within their Terraform configurations. Terraform Vault enables users to store and retrieve secrets from Vault securely, ensuring that sensitive data is protected and managed effectively within their infrastructure deployments. By combining Terraform and Vault, users can automate the provisioning of infrastructure resources while maintaining strong security practices for managing secrets.

## Installed Terraform:

Made sure I installed the gnupg, software-properties-common, and curl packages are installed. GnuPG (GNU Privacy Guard) is a free and open-source software tool that provides encryption and digital signature functionality for data communication and file storage. It is a complete and compliant implementation of the OpenPGP (Pretty Good Privacy) standard, allowing users to encrypt and decrypt data, as well as verify the authenticity of digital signatures. GnuPG is commonly used for securing email communication, protecting sensitive files, and ensuring the integrity of data exchanged over the internet.

In the terminal, run sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install -y gnupg software-properties-common

- This command is used in Linux systems to update the package lists and then install the specified packages.
- "sudo": Is a command that allows the user to run commands with administrative privileges.
- "apt-get update": Updates the package lists for available software packages in the repositories.
- "&&": Is a logical operator that allows the second command to run only if the first command is successful.
- "apt-get install -y gnupg software-properties-common": Installs the "gnupg" and "software-properties-common" packages with the "-y" flag to automatically answer "yes" to any prompts during the installation process.

Installed the HashiCorp GPG key.

The command below is used in Linux systems to download and import the GPG (GNU Privacy Guard) key for the HashiCorp repository. GPG is a tool used for secure communication and data encryption.

In the terminal, run wget -O- https://apt.releases.hashicorp.com/gpg | \
gpg --dearmor | \
sudo tee /usr/share/keyrings/hashicorp-archive-keyring.gpg > /dev/null

- "wget -O- https://apt.releases.hashicorp.com/gpg" downloads the GPG key from the specified URL.
- The "|" (pipe) symbol is used to pass the output of the previous command to the next command.
- "gpg --dearmor" processes the downloaded GPG key and converts it into a format that can be used by GPG.
- "sudo tee /usr/share/keyrings/hashicorp-archive-keyring.gpg" writes the processed GPG key to the specified file location.
- "> /dev/null" redirects any output to /dev/null, which essentially discards any unnecessary output.

Verified the key's fingerprint.

This command is used to display the fingerprint of the public key stored in the specified keyring file.

In the terminal, run gpg --no-default-keyring \
--keyring /usr/share/keyrings/hashicorp-archive-keyring.gpg \
--fingerprint

- "--no-default-keyring": This option tells GPG not to use the default keyring file.
- "--keyring /usr/share/keyrings/hashicorp-archive-keyring.gpg": This specifies the path to the keyring file containing the public key for HashiCorp.
- "--fingerprint": This option instructs GPG to display the fingerprint of the public key.

Added the HashiCorp repository to my system.

This command is to add a new software repository to the list of package sources in the `/etc/apt/sources.list.d/` directory on a Debian-based system.

In the terminal, run echo "deb [signed-by=/usr/share/keyrings/hashicorp-archive-keyring.gpg] \
https://apt.releases.hashicorp.com $(lsb_release -cs) main" | \
sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/hashicorp.list

- `echo` is used to display the specified text.
- `sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/hashicorp.list` is used to write the output of the `echo` command to the file `/etc/apt/sources.list.d/hashicorp.list` with superuser privileges.

Downloaded the package information from HashiCorp.

In the terminal, run sudo apt update.

Installed Terraform from the new repository.

In the terminal, run sudo apt-get install terraform and run ‘y’ to proceed.

Verified the installation.

In the terminal, run terraform -help.

To learn what the subcommands do.

In the terminal, run terraform -help plan.

## Installed Vault:

Updated the package manager and install GPG and wget.

In the terminal, run sudo apt update && sudo apt install gpg wget

Downloaded the keyring.

In the terminal, run wget -O- https://apt.releases.hashicorp.com/gpg | sudo gpg --dearmor -o /usr/share/keyrings/hashicorp-archive-keyring.gpg

Verified the keyring.

In the terminal, run gpg --no-default-keyring --keyring /usr/share/keyrings/hashicorp-archive-keyring.gpg –fingerprint

Add the HashiCorp repository.

In the terminal, run echo "deb [arch=$(dpkg --print-architecture) signed-by=/usr/share/keyrings/hashicorp-archive-keyring.gpg] https://apt.releases.hashicorp.com $(lsb_release -cs) main" | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/hashicorp.list

Installed Vault.

In the terminal, run sudo apt update && sudo apt install vault

Verified the Installation.

In the terminal, run vault.








