## Resources Used:
- https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/tutorials/security/codify-mgmt-vault-terraform

## Environments Used:
- Ubuntu VM in VirtualBox

## Scenario introduction:

“Vault administrators must manage multiple Vault environments. The test servers get destroyed at the end of each test cycle and a new set of servers must be provisioned for the next test cycle. To automate the Vault server configuration, you are going to use Terraform to provision the following Vault resources.”

| Type | Name | Description |
| :---: | :----: | :---: |
| ACL Policy | admins | Sets policies for the admin team |
| ACL Policy | eaas-client | Sets policies for clients to encrypt/decrypt data through transit secrets engine |
| auth method | userpass | Enable and create a user, "student" with admins and fpe-client policies |
| secrets engine | kv-v2 | Enable kv-v2 secrets engine at kv-v2 |
| secrets engine | transit | Enable transit secrets engine at transit |
| encryption key | payment | Encryption key to encrypt/decrypt data | 

## Examine the Terraform files:

1. Cloned the demo assets from the hashicorp/learn-vault-codify GitHub repository. 
In the terminal, run git clone https://github.com/hashicorp/learn-vault-codify.git

2.	Change the working directory to learn-vault-codify/community.
In the terminal, run cd learn-vault-codify/community and run ls to see the items.

3.	Opened the main.tf file in Nano editor and examined the contents.
In the terminal, run nano main.tf

You would provide the server connection details inside this block (Vault server address, client tokens, etc.). It is recommended to configure this provider through environment variables like VAULT_ADDR, VAULT_TOKEN, VAULT_CACERT, VAULT_CAPATH, and others to ensure secure communication with the Vault server. By setting these variables, you can establish a secure connection to the Vault and access the stored secrets as needed in your application or infrastructure.

- This code configures the Vault provider in a Terraform configuration file. The provider "vault" is being defined, indicating that Terraform will interact with a HashiCorp Vault instance to manage secrets or other resources.
- It is highly recommended to configure the Vault provider through environment variables for better security and flexibility. 
- VAULT_ADDR: The address of the Vault server.
- VAULT_TOKEN: The authentication token used to access Vault resources.
- VAULT_CACERT: The path to the CA certificate file for verifying the Vault server's SSL certificate.
- VAULT_CAPATH: The path to a directory of CA certificate files for verifying the Vault server's SSL certificate.
- Other environment variables that may be required for configuring the Vault provider.

4.	Open the policies.tf file in Nano editor and examined the vault_policy resources.
    In the terminal, run nano policies.tf

This code is for creating policies in HashiCorp Vault for managing access control to secrets and resources. Ensuring that users and applications have appropriate permissions to access and interact with the stored secrets and resources in a secure and controlled manner.

A policy named "admin_policy" with the identifier "admins" is being created in the root namespace. This policy is defined by the contents of the file "policies/admin-policy.hcl". This policy is intended to grant administrative privileges and access rights to users or entities designated as administrators within the Vault environment.

A policy named "eaas-client" is being created for a specific purpose. The policy configuration is sourced from the file "policies/eaas-client-policy.hcl". This policy is designed to restrict access to resources and secrets within Vault specifically for the "eaas-client" application, ensuring that only authorized actions can be performed by this client.

5.	Open the auth.tf file in nano editor and examined the contents. 
In the terminal, run nano auth.tf

Note: It enables userpass auth method and creates a user, "student" with admins and eaas-client policies attached. The password is set to "changeme".

This code is configuring a user authentication backend in Vault using the "userpass" method. It creates a user named "student" with the specified policies ("admins" and "eaas-client") and sets the password as "changeme". The "vault_auth_backend" resource defines the user authentication method, while the "vault_generic_endpoint" resource creates the user with the specified policies and password. The "depends_on" attribute ensures that the user creation depends on the authentication backend being configured first. The "ignore_absent_fields" attribute allows the resource to ignore any missing fields when creating the user.

6.	Open the secrets.tf file in nano editor and examined the contents. 
In the terminal, run nano secrets.tf

The code is configuring two secrets engines in Vault: the K/V v2 secrets engine named "kv-v2" and the Transit secrets engine named "transit".

The "vault_mount" resource enables the K/V v2 secrets engine at the path "kv-v2" with the type "kv-v2". This engine is used for storing key-value pairs securely.

The "vault_mount" resource enables the Transit secrets engine at the path "transit" with the type "transit". This engine is used for encryption and decryption operations.

The "vault_transit_secret_backend_key" resource creates an encryption key named "payment" within the Transit secrets engine. The key creation depends on the Transit secrets engine being configured first. The "deletion_allowed" attribute allows the key to be deleted if needed.

## Run Terraform to configure Vault:

Start a Vault server in development mode with root as the root token.

In the terminal, run vault server -dev -dev-root-token-id root.

- The "-dev" flag indicates that the server should run in development mode, which is a non-production environment with default settings and configurations for testing and development purposes.
- The "-dev-root-token-id root" flag specifies the root token ID that will be used to authenticate and access the Vault server in dev mode. In this case, the root token ID is set to "root", allowing full access to the Vault server for administrative tasks.

Note: Running Vault in dev mode is not recommended for production environments as it lacks the security features and configurations necessary for secure data storage and access.

Set the client token in the VAULT_TOKEN environment variable. I made sure I was in “learn-vault-codify/community” directory.

In the terminal, run export VAULT_TOKEN="root"

This command sets the environment variable VAULT_TOKEN to the value 'root'. This environment variable is typically used to authenticate and authorize access to the Vault server. Setting the VAULT_TOKEN to 'root' likely grants the user root-level access to the Vault server.

Set the target Vault server address in the VAULT_ADDR environment variable.

In the terminal, run export VAULT_ADDR=”http://(IP):(Port)” 

- This command sets the environment variable VAULT_ADDR to the value ”http://(IP):(Port)”. This environment variable is used by Vault CLI and SDKs to determine the address of the Vault server to communicate with. It specifies that the Vault server is running locally on the IP address (XXX.X.X.X) and port (XXXX).

Initialize Terraform to pull Vault provider plugin. Note: This will download the Vault plugin.

In the terminal, run terraform init

The "terraform init" command is used in Terraform to initialize a Terraform working directory. When you run "terraform init," Terraform will initialize the directory and download any necessary plugins and modules specified in the configuration files.

- Initializes backend: Terraform uses a backend to store state files and manage remote state. The "terraform init" command initializes the backend configuration specified in the Terraform files.
- Downloads providers: Terraform uses providers to interact with various cloud providers, APIs, and services. The "terraform init" command downloads the necessary provider plugins based on the provider configurations specified in the Terraform files.
- Downloads modules: Terraform modules are reusable components that can be used across different Terraform configurations. The "terraform init" command downloads any modules specified in the configuration files.

Execute the apply command to configure Vault.

In the terminal, run terraform apply and enter the value ‘yes’.

- The "terraform apply" command is used in Terraform to apply the changes defined in your Terraform configuration files to your infrastructure. When you run "terraform apply," Terraform compares the current state of your infrastructure with the desired state defined in your configuration files and then creates, updates, or deletes resources as necessary to make the actual infrastructure match the desired state.

The Vault server in development mode updated.

## Verify the configuration:

List existing policies to make sure that admins and eaas-client policies were created.

In the terminal, run vault policy list.

- This command is used to list all the policies that have been created within Vault. Policies in Vault define what actions are allowed or denied for a given set of users or applications. By using the vault policy list command, users can view the existing policies and their associated permissions, helping them manage access control and security within their Vault environment.

List enabled secrets engines to verify that kv-v2 and transit secrets engines are enabled.

In the terminal, run vault secrets list.

- This command display a list of all the secret engines that have been enabled within the Vault instance. Secret engines in Vault are responsible for managing different types of secrets, such as passwords, API keys, and certificates.

List transit keys to make sure that payment key exists.

In the terminal, run vault list transit/keys.

- This command list all the encryption keys that have been configured within the transit secret engine. The transit secret engine in Vault is used for cryptographic operations such as encryption and decryption of data.

Unset the VAULT_TOKEN environment variable which you used to run Terraform.

In the terminal, run unset VAULT_TOKEN

- This command is used to remove or unset the environment variable VAULT_TOKEN from the current session. Users can effectively revoke the current authentication token and remove it from the session, thereby restricting access to Vault resources that require authentication. This command helps maintain security and control over access to sensitive data stored within Vault by invalidating the current authentication token. 

Verified I can log in with userpass auth method using the username, "student".

In the terminal, run vault login -method=userpass username=student. Enter the password.

- This command authenticate a user using the userpass authentication method with the specified username "student". The userpass authentication method in Vault allows users to authenticate using a username and password combination.

Reviewed the eaas-client policy.

In the terminal, run cat policies/eaas-client-policy.hcl.

- This command is used to display the contents of the policy file named "eaas-client-policy.hcl" located in the "policies" directory within HashiCorp Vault. Policies in Vault define the permissions and access control rules for users or applications interacting with Vault resources.

Made sure that student can encrypt and decrypt data using the payment key.

In the terminal, run vault write transit/encrypt/payment \
     plaintext=$(base64 <<< "1111-2222-3333-4444")

- This command is used in HashiCorp Vault to encrypt a plaintext value using the transit secret engine with a specific key named "payment".
- "vault write" is the command to write data to Vault.
- "transit/encrypt/payment" specifies the path to the encryption endpoint within the transit secret engine and the key named "payment" to be used for encryption.
- "plaintext=$(base64 <<< "1111-2222-3333-4444")" is the plaintext value "1111-2222-3333-4444" encoded in base64 format. This plaintext value will be encrypted using the specified key.

Decrypt the returned ciphertext.

In the terminal, run vault write transit/decrypt/payment \
ciphertext="vault:v1:Example:RYVesgy2eJe4LeJ7v38WYmBEDN6vjPnPfvZm1UCYTajIIlVWjFujNYlA6YZ06lRz

- This command decrypt a given ciphertext using the specified encryption key within the transit secret engine.

The returned value is base64-encoded and must be decoded to reveal the original input value.

In the terminal, run base64 --decode <<< "Example: MTExMS0yMjIyLTMzMzMtNDQ0NAo="

- This command is used to decode a base64-encoded string in a Unix-like operating system. In this specific example, the base64-encoded string "MTExMS0yMjIyLTMzMzMtNDQ0NAo=" represents the text "1111-2222-3333-4444" after decoding.

## Clean up:

I’m going to undo the configuration made by Terraform.

Made sure VAULT_TOKEN and VAULT_ADDR environment variables are set.

In the terminal, run export VAULT_TOKEN=”root”.
In the terminal, run export VAULT_ADDR=”http://XXX.X.X.X:XXXX”
In the terminal, run echo $VAULT_ADDR; echo $VAULT_TOKEN

Destroy the Vault resources created by Terraform.

In the terminal, run terraform destroy -auto-approve.

Remove the terraform state files.

In the terminal, run rm *.tfstate.*

Unset the VAULT_TOKEN and VAULT_ADDR environment variables.

In the terminal, run unset VAULT_TOKEN VAULT_ADDR.

Update: The Vault server in development mode.

